-- Name: James Silcott
-- Homework: ISTA422-Silcott
-- Date: Sept 10, 2020


Chapter 9:
1. What is a temporal table?
When you need to query data, if you want the current state, you simply query the current table
as usual. If you need access to older states, you still query the current table, but you add a clause
indicating that you want to see an older state or period of time.



2. Under what circumstances would you use a temporal table? Temporal tables are in widespread use in
certain kinds of businesses.

When you
need to modify data, you interact with the current table, issuing normal data-modification statements. SQL Server automatically updates the period columns and moves older versions of rows to the history
table. When you need to query data, if you want the current state, you simply query the current table
as usual. If you need access to older states, you still query the current table, but you add a clause
indicating that you want to see an older state or period of time.


3. What are the semantics of a temporal table? There are seven of them.
A primary key
 Two columns defined as DATETIME2 with any precision, which are non-nullable and represent
the start and end of the row’s validity period in the UTC time zone
 A start column that should be marked with the option GENERATED ALWAYS AS ROW START
 An end column that should be marked with the option GENERATED ALWAYS AS ROW END
 A designation of the period columns with the option PERIOD FOR SYSTEM_TIME (<startcol>, <endcol>)
 The table option SYSTEM_VERSIONING, which should be set to ON
 A linked history table (which SQL Server can create for you) to hold the past states of modified rows



4. How do you search a history table?



5. How do you modify a history tablre?
Modifying temporal tables is similar to modifying regular tables. You modify only the current table
with INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, and MERGE statements


6. How do you delete date from a history table? Why would you want to delete data from a history table?
DELETE FROM dbo.Employees


7. How do you search a history table?



8. How do you query all data from both a history file and the current data?



9. How do you drop a temporal table?

Have to accept version before you drop it